# Multiplicative Weights and Ensemble Methods - Boosting

## Learning Objectives
This assignment is going to take a relatively different approach to introducing boosting. Instead of introducing boosting within the scope of some machine learning application such as decision trees (which was assumedly covered in a prior week), we will first look more broadly at the general algorithmic framework of multiplicative weight updates (MWU) since this encapsulates the intuition of ensemble methods in machine learning. From this lens, we will investigate applications such as bagging and boosting, with an added emphasis on boosting, where we investigate Adaboost and the more generalized notion of Gradient Boosting. 

During this journey, we will discover that the conceptual depth around these topics is nothing out of the ordinary. In fact, we have already seen a close cousin of gradient boosting in EECS16AB: Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP). Finally, we compare and contrast various ensemble methods - decision trees to random forests, Adaboost, gradient boosting, relating them to the bias-variance tradeoff, and looking at some more industrial comparisons as well. All in all, this assignment serves to introduce boosting with an incredibly strong conceptual background and intuitive grasp, along with providing excellent practical skills in a real life setting with modern datasets and packages.

The idea of aggregating information from many sources has great utility in machine learning and is the basis behind ensemble methods. Boosting is one example of an ensemble method which has had great success in real-life applications; Indeed, the fundamental ideas behind these concepts are universal.


Upon completion of this lesson, the student will be able to:

1. Understand and use the Multiplicative Weights Update (MWU) method as a general framework in a wide variety of problems. Identify the intimate connection between MWU and ensemble methods in machine learning, and look at problems that we've seen before in courses like EECS16AB, such as OMP, through the lens of MWU. 

2. Understand the basic ideas of Ensemble Methods in machine learning and the idea of combining several classifiers to create better ones. Understand boosting and bagging, their similarities and differences. Understand the bias-variance tradeoff between the two. Understand the intimate connection between OMP and boosting. 

3. Apply the AdaBoost Algorithm to Decision Trees to create strong classifiers from several weak ones, and view this as a particular application of the MWU framework. Gain practical skills for machine learning in real life applications with sklearn. 

## How our assignment helps with that

Our assignment opens by allowing students to experiment with a few MWU strategies and get a feel for how they combine the advice of multiple experts to make the best possible decision. It then transitions over to exploring the idea of Ensemble Methods, with an example for Bagging as a warm-up. 

The students then have the challenge of implementing AdaBoost on Decision Trees. We have provided a rough framework for their code structure and enough starter code so that students have a general idea on how to go about the implementation; in addition, we have provided the pseudocode from the notes as a reference. Student can complete the implementation and then compare their results to scikit-learn's AdaBoost for comparison. In addition, we have several useful visuals for the classification boundaries generated by Boosting. Finally, there is an optional section for students interested in applying the technique to gradient boosting. 

## Navigating this repository

Note is contained in Note.pdf

Student Code is contained in Student_Code_Multiplicative_Weights_and_Ensemble_Methods_Boosting.ipynb

Code Solutions are contained Code_Solution_Multiplicative_Weights_and_Ensemble_Methods_Boosting.ipynb

Slide Deck is contained in Multiplicative Weights and Boosting Slides.pdf

Quiz Questions are contained in Quiz Questions Multiplicative Weights and Boosting.pdf

Quiz Solutions are contained in Quiz Solutions Multiplicative Weights and Boosting.pdf
